Metadata-Version: 2.1
Name: sl4ng
Version: 0.0.1
Summary: UNKNOWN
Home-page: https://tildegit.org/eli2and40/sl4ng
Author: Kenneth Elisandro
Author-email: eli2and40@tilde.club
License: MIT
Description: # sl4ng
        
        This package serves as a workflow booster for emailing, iterating, and a veritable smorgasboard of cases scattered in between. 
        
        You want persistant data but Pickle and Dill ask one too many damned questions? 
        	sl4ng.persistance.save
        	sl4ng.persistance.load
        
        You be writing generators so nice that you want to use them twice, thrice, or indefinitely? We gotchu! 
            sl4ng.types.regenerator 
        
        You're on the brink of the creative breakthrough of the ages but you'll end it all in a fit of rage if you accidentally overwite your projects ever again? We gotchu! 
            sl4ng.files.paths.namespacer
        
        You want to look at an object's source code but inspect.getsource makes a mess of rendering things in your REPL, or perhaps you want to jump straight into its package-folder or source-file? 
            sl4ng.debug.getsource 
            sl4ng.debug.pop 
        
        You want to want to see if your iterable is the codomain of a constant function? We gotchu 
            sl4ng.functional.eq 
        
        You really like your dictionary, but it's got some duplicate values? We.. Got.. Chu! 
            sl4ng.iteration.deduplicate
        
        You've read this far and think "Damn, son, this package looks diggity fresh, but some of those functions are deeply nested"? We gotchu 
            Everything is imported to init
Keywords: utilities productivity
Platform: UNKNOWN
Classifier: Programming Language :: Python :: 3
Classifier: License :: OSI Approved :: MIT License
Classifier: Operating System :: OS Independent
Requires: pyperclip
Requires: dill
Requires: psutil
Requires: send2trash
Requires: tqdm
Requires: filetype
Requires-Python: >=3.8
Description-Content-Type: text/markdown
